# MFG598Final_Project
MFG 598 Final Project Draft Simulator
Final Project Desription:
MFG 598 Final Project Draft Simulator Final Project Description: As a huge football fan, one thing I have to look forward to is the annual NFL Draft. For my project, I created a draft simulator that will simulate picks 1-32 of the first round of the 2025 NFL Draft, utilizing real-life prospects. For this project, I made a data set of thirty-five real-life prospects based on my rankings and opinions, with thirty-five being the cutoff to add a little variation to the simulations. For both versions of the code, Python was used, as was Pandas to sort the data from the NFL Draft Prospects CSV file. The first version was strictly made to run in Python using Pandas to sort the player data from the CSV. The Data was sorted by 'Player Rank', 'Player Position', 'Name', and 'School'. Also that was included was the official draft order as well as team needs, which included the three positions that the different teams need. The logic of the code was to use user input to choose which picks they wanted to pick, and then have them choose from the available list of players. After they selected which teams they wanted to pick for they could then sort by position and then draft a player based on who was left available at their draft position. The Python version would have the user input the player's index number they wanted to draft. Also instituted was a simulation system that would simulate all picks that were not user-controlled based on the criteria of taking the best player available at a position of need, or if that was unavailable, simply just the best player available. This is similar to how the pick grading system works, as players picked with a high rank who fulfill a position of need almost always give a good letter grade for that pick. After using Pandas to simulate it in Python the code was modified to work as a streamlit app that used Pandas with the same logic as the previous code however, it was integrated differently and provided a much better UI for people who want to run the app as it used streamlit functions coupled with Pandas to make the draft simulator work.
